# Computer Vision Application

In the spring of 2025, I was enrolled in the course CSC443: Software Engineering at Augsburg University. The objective of the course was to introduce students to the methods and experience of software development as part of a large team, primary through a semester-long group project. Alongside the active creation of software, students werbe tasked to utilised the Agile method of development, documenting the work completed in each of four sprints as well as other supplementary materials such as product usage and testing.

With classmates Ariana Beeby and Jason Jopp, I created a portable application for basic object detection within an image. Users can import an image and select a color to search for, with the program highlighting the image with detected objects matching that color according to other selected parameters. The application was created in Python, using the OpenCV library along with NumPy for the core functionality and PySide6 to create a Qt interface. The product, while of limited practical use in itself, was judged a success given the time and resources available.

My own role in development was primarily to create the graphic user interface, described in the application files `user_interface.py` and `gui_colorpicker.py`, as well as `main.py` which connects internal functionalities to that interface. The `Images` folder contains a number of image files used to test the application, while some sample outputs from near the end of develpment can be found in `results.png` and `output.avi`. The user manual included in the project documentation was a mostly-collaborative but indidividually-submitted report made at the conclusion of the project, including most supplemental documentation and a reflection of the project as a whole.
